## Windows 10 Features

__Cortana Integration:__ Windows 10 comes with Cortana integration. Cortana is
your very own personnel assistant. You can type in or ask Cortana a question,
and cortana will seek out the best possible answser based on your question.

__Secure Boot:__ Windows 10 gives you the ability to use hardware-based
virtualization that allows Windows 10 to prevent malware from running on your
system. Windows 10 Secure Boot alsoprevents key processes from being tampered
with because Windows 10 isolates these processes from the system.

__Enterprise Data Protection:__ Windows 10 Enterprise Data Protection (EDP)
helps protect corporate data in a world that is increasingly becoming a Bring
Your Own Device (BYOD) environment. Since many organizations are allowing
employees to connect their own devices to their network, the possibility of
corporate data being compromised because of non-corporate programs running on
these personnel devices is increasing. For example, many third-party apps may
put corporate data risk by accidently disclosing corporate information through
the application.

Enterprise Data Protection helps protect information by separationg corporate
applications and corporate data from being disclosed by personal devices and
personal applications.

__Device Guard:__ Because employees can use multiple types of Windows devices
(Surface Pros, Windows Phones, and Windows 10 computer systems), Device Guard is
a feature that helps guarantee that only turested applications will run on any
of these devices.

Device Guard uses both hardware and software security features to lock down a
device so it an run only trusted and approved applications. This also helps
protect against hackers from running malicious software on these devices.

__Microsoft Passport:__ Windows 10 allows administrators to replace passwords
with other types of authenticatoin on the operationg system. Microsoft Passport
allows for multifactor authentication by using a combination of an enrolled
device and biometric authentication or a personal identifaction number.

Microsoft has encompassed the use of your Microsoft account with the use of your
corporate account. So with Windows 10, Microsfot Passport an log you into your
domain as well as into the cloud and Microsoft websites. The user will be
required to verify their Microsoft Passport account, and that account will then
be tied into a gesture or PIN, and from that point on , the suer will not need
to use a password to log into the device and their protected resources. Because
no password will be needed, this helps prevent hackers from using software to
hack a password on an account.

__Start Menu:__ Windows 10 has brought back the Start Menu that users are
familiar with. The Windows 10 Start Menu combines the best of both Windows 7 and
Windows 8. So the Start menu gives you a menu that we were familiar with in
Windows 7 as well as the Live Tiles that users liked in Windows 8.

__Microsoft Edge and Internet Explorer 11:__ Windows 10 has introduced a new way
to surf the Internet with Microsoft Edge. But Windows 10 also still comes with
Internet Explorer 11 in the event that you need to run ActiveX controls or run
backward-compatible web services or sites.

Microsoft Edge allows users to start using many new Microsoft features,
including Web Note (allows you to annotate, highlight, and call things out
directly on web pages), Reading View (allows you to print and save as a PDF for
easy reading), and Cortana (personal assistant).

__Domain Join and Group Policy:__ Depending on the version of Windows 10 that
you are using, administrators have the ability to join Windows 10 clients to
either a corporate version of Active Directory or a cloud-based version of Azure
Active Directory.

__Windows Store for Business:__ Microsoft Store has included mnay application
that allow users to get better functionality and productivity out of their
Windows 10 devices. One advantage for corporations is that they can create their
own applications and load them into the Microsoft Store for users to download
(called _sideloading_).

__Mobile Device Management:__ Mobile Device Management (MDM) allows
administrators to setup Windows 10 policies that can integrate many corporate
scenarios, including the ability to control users' access to the Windows Store
and the ability to use the corporate VPN. MDM also allows administrators to
manage multiple users who have accounts set up on Microsoft Azure Active
Directory (Azure AD). Windows 10 MDM support is based on the Open Mobile
Alliance (OMA) Device Management (DM) protocol 1.2.1 specification.
